<!-- -*- eval:(visual-line-mode 1) -*- -->

<div data-theme-toc="true"></div>
<div data-guild-docs="true"></div>

## Overview

A *Guild environment* is a system runtime used to manage runs. All Guild commands are executed in the context of a Guild environment.

View information about the current environment using [`guild check`](/commands/check).

The `guild_home` attribute in `check` output indicates the location of the Guild environment. By default the Guild environment is `~/.guild` where `~` is the active user home directory. For more information, see [Guild Home](#guild-home) below.

## Virtual Environments

By default, Guild environments correspond to activated virtual environments. Use virtual environments created using [conda](https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/install/) or [`virtualenv`](https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/latest/) to isolate your work, including Guild runs.

Change this behavior by [setting Guild home](#set-guild-home).

> <span data-guild-class="callout important"></span>When using a virtual environment, runs are saved *within the environment*. Take care when deleting virtual environments as they may contain Guild runs. Look for `.guild/runs` within the virtual environment directory to verify that you aren't deleting runs.

## Guild Home

*Guild home* is a directory that contains Guild-maintained files. These include:

- Runs
- Cached downloaded resources
- Cached run output scalars
- Remote state
- Deleted runs
- Interprocess locks

Guild Home is layed out as follows:

|||
|-|-|
| <span data-guild-class="ls-dir-open">Guild Home Directory</span> | <span data-guild-class="dim">default is `~/.guild`</span> |
| <span data-guild-class="ls-dir-open ls-1">cache</span> | <span data-guild-class="dim">Guild-maintained caches</span> |
| <span data-guild-class="ls-dir ls-2">import-flags</span> | <span data-guild-class="dim">cached flags imported from scripts</span> |
| <span data-guild-class="ls-dir ls-2">resources</span> | <span data-guild-class="dim">cached resources</span> |
| <span data-guild-class="ls-dir ls-2">runs</span> | <span data-guild-class="dim">indexed run scalars</span> |
| <span data-guild-class="ls-dir ls-1">locks</span> | <span data-guild-class="dim">interprocess resource locks</span> |
| <span data-guild-class="ls-dir ls-1">remotes</span> | <span data-guild-class="dim">remote state</span> |
| <span data-guild-class="ls-dir ls-1">runs</span> | <span data-guild-class="dim">indexed run attributes and scalars</span> |
| <span data-guild-class="ls-dir-open ls-1">trash</span> | <span data-guild-class="dim">deleted objects</span> |
| <span data-guild-class="ls-dir ls-2">runs</span> | <span data-guild-class="dim">deleted runs</span> |

### Set Guild Home

By default, Guild resolves Guild home by first looking in the activated virtual environment. If an environment isn't activated, Guild uses `.guild` in the current user's home directory.

You can specify a different location for Guild home using one of two methods:

- Set `GUILD_HOME` environment variable
- Use `-H` when running a Guild command

To set `GUILD_HOME` for all Guild commands in a command shell, run:

``` command
export GUILD_HOME=<path>
```

To set Guild home for one command, use one of these methods:

``` command
GUILD_HOME=<path> guild <command> ...
```

or:

``` command
guild -H <path> <command> ...
```

> <span data-guild-class="callout note"></span>When using `-H`, the option must be specified *before* `<command>`.

For help setting environment variables on Windows, see [Help with Windows](/docs/windows).

## Create a Guild Environment

New environments may be created using the following methods:

- Use [`guild init`](/commands/init)
- Use one of the standard Python tools: [`virtualenv`](https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/latest/), [`venv`](https://docs.python.org/library/venv.html), or [conda](https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/install/)
- Create a new directory and [set it as Guild home](#set-guild-home)

[`guild init`](/commands/init) command uses `virtualenv` to create a new virtual environment. When running `init`, Guild performs additional steps to streamline the process of creating a virtualized Guild environment for a project:

- Uses a Python [dependency specification](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0508/) to select an appropriate Python version when creating the virtual environment
- Runs `pip install -r requirements.txt` if `requirements.txt` is defined for a project

## Activate Virtual Environments

You must activate a virtual environment before using it. Activate a virtual environment using the applicable method.

To activate an environment created with [`guild init`](/commands/init) run:

``` command
source guild-env [<env path>]
```

<span data-guild-class="caption">Activate a virtual environment created using [`guild init`](/commands/init)</span>

You may omit `<env path>` if the environment is defined in the current directory or in a `venv` subdirectory.

> <span data-guild-class="callout note"></span>Virtual environments created using [`guild init`](/commands/init) are standard Python virtual environments and can be activated by sourcing the `bin/activate` environment. The `guild-env` command provides a convenient alternative.

To activate an environment created using `virtualenv` or `venv` use:

``` command
source <env path>/bin/activate
```

<span data-guild-class="caption">Activate a virtual environment created using `virtualenv` or `venv`</span>

To activate a Conda environment use:

``` command
conda activate <env name>
```

For more information about Conda environments, see [Conda - Managing environments](https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/tasks/manage-environments.html).

Once activated, you can verify that Guild home is the expected environment by running:

``` command
guild check
```

Confirm that the `guild_home` attribute reflects the correct directory.
