<!-- -*- eval:(visual-line-mode 1) -*- -->

<div data-theme-toc="true"></div>
<div data-guild-docs="true"></div>

## Overview

In previous sections of [this guide](/start) you learn about Guild's core features. In this section, you learn how to apply Guild to your own work.

This is a conceptual guide rather than a step-by-step tutorial.

To add Guild support for your project, add a [Guild file](/docs/guildfile). In most cases, you don't need to change your code. Simply add a file to enable experiment tracking and other features.

> <span data-guild-class="callout note">Note</span> This guide applies to Python based projects. If your project uses a different language, refer to [*Languages Example*](/examples/languages). If you don't see a suitable example for your language, [ask for help](/new-topic?category=general).

## Identify the Main Module

To define a Guild operation, first identify the Python module to run. In some cases, the module is obvious. For more complex projects, it may take investigating.

If you're adding Guild support to someone else's project and don't know which module to run, consult the project documentation or ask the author for help.

The project may support more than one operation --- for example both *train* and *test*. Select the primary operation. This is usually related to training a model. You can add support for other operations over time.

For this guide, we use various main modules to illustate different configuration options. The source code for these modules is in the [`get-started` examples directory](https://github.com/guildai/guildai/tree/master/examples/get-started).

## Use a Virtual Environment

Even if you don't plan to use a virtual environment for your work, it's a good idea to create a new, empty virtual environment when adding Guild support. As you run your project, you discover missing Python modules. Install the applicable Python packages using `pip` and add them to `requirements.txt`. With a correct `requirements.txt` file, you can easily recreate a working virtual environment. So can others!

As you [learned earlier](/start/classifier#create-a-guild-environment), Guild works with any virtual environment, including those created with [conda](https://docs.conda.io/), [virtualenv](https://virtualenv.pypa.io), or Python's [venv](https://docs.python.org/library/venv.html) module.

Here's a simple way to create a project-local virtual environment using Python's built-in `venv` module (Python 3 only):

``` command
python -m venv venv
```

You can alternatively use [`guild init`](/commands/init) to create a virtual environment. This method uses virtualenv. To ensure that you create an empty environment, use the `--no-reqs` option.

``` command
guild init --no-reqs
```

Remember to activate your environment. When you open a new terminal, activate the environment in that terminal as well.

For POSIX shells:

``` command
source venv/bin/activate
```

For Windows:

``` command
Scripts\activate.bat
```

Ensure that your environment uses the latest version of `pip`:

``` command
pip install --upgrade pip
```

## Run Without Guild

Before using Guild, run your operation directly with Python. This step lets you resolve project related issues before introducing Guild.

Here's an example of running a module implemented in `mnist_mlp.py`:

``` command
python -m mnist_mlp
```

> <span data-guild-class="callout important">Important</span> When developing Guild files, use `-m` to run Python modules. Don't run scripts directly. It's important to understand Python module structure, which Distinguishes *Python system paths* from Python *packages*. See below for details.

If the module is located in a subdirectory, determine if the subdirectory is a Python package. If the subdirectory contains a file named `__init__.py` it's a Python *package*. If it doesn't contain `__init__.py`, it's merely a *subdirectory path*.

Subdirectory paths that are not Python packages must be included in the Python path. If you're running a POSIX shell, you can include the path in the Python command as the environment variable `PYTHONPATH`. For example, if the module is located in a `src` (non-package) subdirectory, you can run:

``` command
PYTHONPATH=src python -m mnist_mlp
```

You can alternatively export `PYTHONPATH` once for the terminal session:

``` command
export PYTHONPATH=src
```

If you're running Windows, define `PYTHONPATH` using `set`:

``` command
set PYTHONPATH=%PYTHONPATH%;src
```

If the subdirectory is a Python package --- i.e. it contains `__init__.py` --- include the package in the module spec. For example, if `mnist_mlp.py` is located in subdirectory `models` alongside `__init__.py`, run it using:

``` command
python -m models.mnist_mlp
```

When you run the main module, if you get the error `No module named ...`, verify that both `PYTHONPATH` and the module spec are correct.

### Install Required Packages

When you run the main module in an activate empty virtual environment (recommended) you will likely see an error message like this:

``` output
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/usr/lib/python3.6/runpy.py", line 183, in _run_module_as_main
    mod_name, mod_spec, code = _get_module_details(mod_name, _Error)
  File "/usr/lib/python3.6/runpy.py", line 109, in _get_module_details
    __import__(pkg_name)
  File ".../mnist_mlp.py", line 10, in <module>
    import keras
ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'keras'
```

In this case, use `pip` to install required packages in the virtual environment.

``` command
pip install keras
```

When you install a missing package, add that package to `requirements.txt`. This lets you install required packages in new environments and communicates those requirements to others.

> <span data-guild-class="callout tip">Tip</span> On POSIX systems, use <code>echo <em>PACKAGE</em> >> requirements.txt</code> to add *`PACKAGE`* to `requirements.txt`.

Continue running the main module until it succeeds, installing required packages as needed. If there are other issues with the project code, resolve those before continuing.

### 10 Second Rule

If the main module takes more than 10 seconds, consider ways to reduce its execution time. In most cases, this is a matter of reducing training epochs, steps, or procssed data records. The goal is to run the operation end-to-end as quickly as possible while still executing the full code path.

Consider [`mnist_mlp.py`](https://github.com/guildai/guildai/blob/master/examples/get-started/mnist_mlp.py). By default, the model learns over 20 epochs. This takes several minutes.

https://github.com/guildai/guildai/blob/master/examples/get-started/mnist_mlp.py#L18

To reduce operation run time, we can change the epoch count to 1. Rather than change the code, which is risky, we can *add lines* that change the value whenever we apply the 10 second rule.

https://github.com/guildai/guildai/blob/master/examples/get-started/mnist_mlp_10sec.py#L16-L22

With this change, the time to run the operation goes from several minutes to several seconds.

We can go further and reduce the number of train and test examples.

https://github.com/guildai/guildai/blob/master/examples/get-started/mnist_mlp_10sec.py#L33-L37

With this change, the operation takes only a few seconds --- about as long as it takes to read the MNIST examples.

Why bother with a 10 second rule? The strongest argument for the 10 second rule is experience. Try making comparable changes to your project code and see how you like it. You should find that it's much faster to develop when the 10 second flag is enabled. When you need to run real work loads, disable the 10 second rule code by setting the flag to false.

Use these guidelines when considering changes to your code:

- Remember that you are sacrificing model performance to achieve short execution times. Don't worry that your model accuracy plummets --- this is expected.
- Avoid modifying existing lines of code --- only add new lines. This minimizes risk associated with the changes. It simplifies the process of removing them later if needed.
- Use a single global variable to enable and disable the 10 second rule. Define the variable at the top of the module to make it easier to spot.
- Denote your changes clearly. This is usually the case when you use a flag like `_10sec`. If you take a different approach, use clear comments as needed.

## Add a Guild File

Add `guild.yml` to your project. As you learned in earlier sections, this is human readable text file located in the root of your project.

Start with a single operation. For this guide we use the `train` operation.


## Understand the Operation Interface

When you run the operation, consider its *interface*. The interface consists of operations *inputs* and *outputs*.

Operation inputs:

- Settings related to model architecture and related algorithms --- these are referred to as *hyperparameters*
- Other settings used by the script such as file locations, database credentials, etc.
- Required files

Operation outputs:

- Generated files
- Logged metrics --- these are referred to as *scalars*

The sections below help you identify the operation interface. With this information you later [define the operation](#define-the-operation).

### How are operation settings specified?

Python based operations are configured in various ways:

- Global variables
- Environment variables
- Command line arguments
- Configuration files
- In-place values

Guild supports each of these methods except the last. In-place values are not easily or safely modified and should be avoided.

#### Global variables

The use of global variables is perhaps the most popular method for defining operation settings.

Most Keras examples use this method. Consider [`mnist_mlp.py`](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/guildai/guildai/master/examples/use-guild/mnist_mlp.py). This module defines three global variables:

https://github.com/guildai/guildai/blob/master/examples/use-guild/mnist_mlp.py#L16-L18

Two of these variables are hyperparameters: *`batch_size`* and *`epochs`*. To change these, you edit the source code. It's time consuming to try different hyperparameters.

Because this method is so popular, Guild lets you run this script with different values for these hyperparameters.

``` command
guild run mnist_mlp.py batch_size=512 epochs=10
```

If your script uses global variables, you can use Guild to configure


#### Environment variables

#### Command line arguments

#### Configuration files

#### In-place values


### What input files does the operation require?

### What output files does the operation generate?

### What metrics does the operation log?



## Define the Operation

Define the
