<!-- -*- eval:(visual-line-mode 1) -*- -->

<div data-theme-toc="true"></div>
<div data-guild-docs="true"></div>

## Overview

There is no single template for Python projects. This is also true for data science projects. Use the layout that makes the most sense for your project.

This guide presents a number of layouts, starting with something simple and increasing complexity as needed.

## Guidelines

Before showing different templates, we discuss some guidelines.

### Python Modules vs Packages

If you're not familiar with the differences between modules and packages, see https://docs.python.org/tutorial/modules.html. This guide explains a number of important concepts.

The templates below start with simple module-only projects. They don't use packages. This is often a good place to start. As your project becomes more complex, consider moving modules under packages. If you want to distribute your project --- for example as an installable unit or via [PyPI](https://pypi.org) --- you need to move your modules into a package. You can make that decision later.

### To use `src` or Not

Most Python projects do not place Python source files under a top-level `src` directory. [Some do](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers). This is largely a matter of preference. The examples below present both options.

Advantages of using `src` directory:

- Consist in using a top-level category directory, which parallels the use of directories like `docs`, `examples`, `notebooks`, etc.
- Clearly denote project packages

Disadvantages of using `src` directory:

- Uncommon when there's only one package
- Having only one item in a subdirectory suggests the subdirectory is unnecessary

If you use `src` as a top-level directory, it must not contain `__init__.py`. The `src` directory is not a package and must not be [represented as such](https://pypi.org/project/src/).

### Multilanguage Projects

If Python is only one language or many used in your project, your project structure may not comply with any of the canonical examples presented in this guide. Consider the projects below for examples of project layouts where Python is but one language component of many.

- [TensorFlow](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow)
- [Matplotlib](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib)

### Choice of License

It's fine to [intentionally omit a license](https://choosealicense.com/no-permission/) from a project. This relies exclusively on copyright to protect your work from unauthorized copy, distribution, and modification. When making a decision to not include a license, it's a good idea to state that in the README.

To allow use of your code, you must explicitly grant license. You cab do that by adding a LICENSE file to the project.

See [choosealicense.com](https://choosealicense.com) for help selecting a license for your project.

### Generated Artifacts

Write generated artifacts to project-local output directories rather than to locations outside the project such as `/tmp`. Writing to project-local files makes your project portable across environments.

Rather than hard-code output directories, modify your code to support user-defined alternatives. The following snippet shows the use of `argparse` to support a configurable log directory:

``` python
import argparse, model

p = argparse.ArgumentParser()
p.add_argument("--logdir", default="logs")
args = p.parse_args()

model.train(args.logdir)
```

Do not store generated artifacts in your project repository. Include default output directories in the repository ignore list (e.g. `.gitignore`).

The `.gitignore` file for the example above looks like this:

```
*.pyc
logs
```

Do not include default output directories in your project template.

This is an anti-pattern:

> <span data-guild-class="ls-dir-open">Project</span>
<span data-guild-class="ls-dir-open ls-1">logs</span>
<span data-guild-class="ls-file ls-2">.gitkeep</span>

Instead, lazily create the output directory from your script.

``` python
import os

def train(logdir):
    if not os.path.exists(logdir):
        os.makedirs(logdir)
```

Rather than use generic directories names like `models` and `data`, which mean different things depending on context, use names that describe what is being generated.

For example:

- `prepared-data`
- `saved-models`
- `checkpoints`

Remember, these directories are not a part of your project. They don't need to fit a purported standard.

### Notebooks

Avoid using notebooks for module code. A notebook should serve to illustrate the use of an API and not implement the API. If you use a notebook to solve a problem, move the working code into a Python module and call it from the notebook.

When code is in a Python module, you can apply proven methods to improve it:

- Refactor code into a useful API
- Run code analyzers like [Pylint](https://www.pylint.org/) to find bugs
- Test and measure testint code coverage

Notebooks stored in project repositories should be summary only. They should not be essential to performing project tasks.

### Use of Guild Files

The templates below include [Guild files](/docs/guildfiles) in the project root. Because each structure affects how operations are defined, we provide an example Guild file for each case.

## Simplest Possible Project

When starting a project, avoid the temptation to create an elaborate structure unless you're certain you need it. Here's a perfectly acceptable Python project.

> <span data-guild-class="ls-dir-open">Project</span>
<span data-guild-class="ls-file ls-1">README.md</span>
<span data-guild-class="ls-file ls-1">guild.yml</span>
<span data-guild-class="ls-file ls-1">train.py</span>

Always include a README file. You can use Markdown, as show, but any plain text format will do. The README should describe your project and how to use it.

This project deliberately omits a LICENSE file. See [Choice of License](#choice-of-license) above for why we initially omit a LICENSE. Add a LICENSE only when you want to grant specific rights to others.

`train.py` in this case must be executable as a main module. Use this pattern:

``` python
import somelib

layers = 3
epochs = 10

def main():
    model = somelib.Model(layers=layers)
    model.fit(epochs=epochs)

if __name__ == "__main__":
    main()
```

Sample Guild file:

``` yaml
train:
  main: train        # Can be omitted as the op name is used by default.
  flags-import: all
```

For a working example that uses this simple structure, see [tensorflow2](https://github.com/guildai/guildai/tree/master/examples/tensorflow2).

## Multi-Module Project

In this example, we move to a more structured approach using different modules. There's nothing wrong with using a single module for all your code. That's a good place to start. In time you may find it easier to reason about your project functions by placing them into separate modules.

Consider a separate module for any of these functions:

- Data loading and preprocessing
- Model network definition
- Model training
- Model evaluating or testing
- Project interface - programatic or command line

Moving to this layout is simply a matter of adding and possibly renaming existing modules.

> <span data-guild-class="ls-dir-open">Project</span>
<span data-guild-class="ls-file ls-1">README.md</span>
<span data-guild-class="ls-file ls-1">data.py</span>
<span data-guild-class="ls-file ls-1">model.py</span>
<span data-guild-class="ls-file ls-1">train.py</span>
<span data-guild-class="ls-file ls-1">eval.py</span>
<span data-guild-class="ls-file ls-1">main.py</span>
