<!-- -*- eval:(visual-line-mode 1) -*- -->

<div data-theme-toc="true"></div>

Guild files are named `guild.yml`. They contain project configuration. This document describes their format and schema.

Guild files are plain text, [YAML](https://yaml.org/) formatted files.

Guild files can be constructed using one of two formats:

- Full format
- Operation-only format

## Full Format

*Full format* is used to specify full project configuration. It contains a list of top-level objects in the format:

``` yaml
- object_type: name
  attr_1: val_1
  attr_2: val_2
  ...

- object_type: name
  attr_1: val_1
  attr_2: val_2
  ...
```

`object_type` is an attribute that implies the object type by its presence. The type attribute value is the object name.

You can include any of the following types in full mode:

- `model`
  Models define operations, which are run to generate experiments. See [Models](#models) below.

- `config`
  A named mapping of attributes that can be referenced by other top-level objects as configuration. See [Config](#config) below.

- `package`
  Packages define how Guild generates Python wheel distributions. See [Packages](#packages) below.

## Operation Only Format

*Operation-only* format is a simplified format that contains a map of operations in the format:

``` yaml
operation_name_1:
  attr_1: val_1
  attr_2: val_2
  ...

operation_name_2:
  attr_1: val_1
  attr_2: val_2
  ...
```

## Which Format to Use

Use full format when you want to:

- Specify a model name (operation-only uses an anonymous model)
- Define multiple models
- Define named resources
- Define a package

Use operation-only format when you want to:

- Only define operations, keeping the Guild file as simple as possible

Users often start with operation-only format and move to full format as needed.

Here's a simple operation-only Guild file:

``` yaml
prepare-data:
  main: prepare
  flags:
    val-split: 0.2

train:
  main: train
  flags:
    learning-rate: 0.1
    batch-size: 100
```

&nbsp; *Operation-only format: operations are defined at the top-level*

To move to a full format, these operations can be added to a top-level `model` object:

``` yaml
- model: mlp
  operations:
    prepare-data:
      main: prepare
      flags:
        val-split: 0.2

    train:
      main: train
      flags:
        learning-rate: 0.1
        batch-size: 100
```

<span data-guild-class="caption">Full format: top-level objets defined using type attributes</span>
