<!-- -*- eval:(visual-line-mode 1) -*- -->

<div data-theme-toc="true"> </div>

Operations tell Guild what to do when the [`guild run`](/commands/run) command is executed. Consider the command:

``` text
guild run train
```

Guild looks in the current directory for a Guild file that contains a `train` operation. Guild uses the configuration to run the operation and to perform tasks such as validating flag values, snapshotting source code, and saving metrics.

You can list operations that are available by running:

``` text
guild operations
```

As described above in [Overview](#overview), operations can be defined at the top-level of a Guild file in a mapping (*operation-only* format). Alternatively, operations can be defined as values of a model's `operations` attribute (*full* format).

## Operation Attributes

The attributes listed below describe an operation.

If the Guild file is is [operation-only format](/reference/guildfile/overview#operation-only-format), the attributes are applied under a top-level mapping key, which is the operataion name:

``` text
<mapping key>:
  <attr>: <val>
  ...
```

If the Guild file is [full format](/reference/guildfile/overview#full-format), they are applied as attributes of an `operations` attribute for a model:

``` text
- model: <model name>
  operations:
    <mapping key>:
      <attr>: <val>
      ...
```

<div id="operation-name"></div>

#### `<mapping key>`

*Operation name (required string)*

Operation names are specified as the key in a mapping. If the Guild file is written in operation-only format, the mapping is defined at the top-level of the Guild file. If the Guild file is written in full format, the mapping is defined as the value of the `operations` attribute for a model.

Operation names are used when running the operation. If the operation is defined for a named model (full format only), it can be referenced as `MODEL_NAME:OPERATION_NAME`. Otherwise it can be referenced as `OPERATION_NAME`. The model name in this case is empty and can be omitted.

<div id="operation-description"></div>

#### `description`

*Operation description (string)*

This value can span multiple lines. By convention, the first line is a short description that does not end in a period. Subsequent lines, separated by an empty line, should be written using full sentences.

<div id="operation-main"></div>

#### `main`

*Operation main Python module (string)*

This value tells Guild what to execute when someone runs the operation. The value must be in the format:

    [MODULE_PATH/]MODULE [ARG...]

`MODULE_PATH` is optional. It is the path, relative to the Guild, which should be included in the Python system to import the main module. `MODULE` is the full module name, including any parent Python packages.

`ARG` may be any argument that should be passed to the module. Multiple `ARG` values may be provided.

Guild appends flag values to the list of `ARG` values in the format `--FLAG_NAME FLAG_VAL`.

You can explicitly specify flag values using the format `${FLAG_NAME}`. Guild replaces such references when creating the command. Note that unless `arg-skip` is true for referenced flags, those values will also be appended as argument as per above.

Do not include the `.py` extension in the value for `MODULE`.

`main` is used for Python modules only. To run a program, use `exec`.

<div id="operation-exec"></div>

#### `exec`

*Operation command (string)*

Guild uses this value to execute a system command.

Use `exec` to run operations by executing a program. By default, flags are not invcluded in the operation command. To include flags, specify `${flag_args}` as an argument in the `exec` value.

<div id="operation-steps"></div>

#### `steps`

*List of steps to run for workflow (list of strings or [steps](#steps))*

Steps are used to implement sequential work flow in Guild. Refer to [Steps](#steps) below for details.

<div id="operation-flags"></div>

#### `flags`

*Operation flags (mapping of flag name to [flag](#flags))*

Flags define the user-interface for an operation. Mapping keys are flag names. See [Flags](#flags) for a list of flag attributes.

Guild supports the special `$include` mapping key, which may be a string or list of strings. Each string may refer to either a model operation or a config object. See [Reuse Flag Definitions](#reuse-flag-definitions) below for more information.

<div id="operation-flags-dest"></div>

#### `flags-dest`

*Destination for flag values (string)*

This value tells Guild how to communicate flag values to the operation script. Guild supports the following flag destinations:

- `args`
   Provide flag values as command line arguments

- `globals`
   Set flag values as global variables (Python scripts only)

- `global:DOTTED_NAME`
   Set flag values as dict values in `DOTTED_NAME`

  `DOTTED_NAME` is a chain of keys, each key separated by a dot (`.`). Guild will set each flag value in a dict that is resolved by reading module namespace attributes starting with the root namespace and proceeding from left-to-right along the chain. For example, the value `global:params` sets flag values in a global dict named `params`. The value `global:params.train` sets values in a dict defined as the attribute or key `train` of the global variable `params.

<div id="operation-flags-import"></div>

#### `flags-import`

*List of flags to import (string or list of strings)*

By default, Guild does not import any flags.

To import all detected flags, use `yes` or `all` for the value.

To import a list of flags, specify a list of flag names.

When importing flags, Guild inspects the script specified in the `main` attribute to determine how flags are defined. If the Python module uses `argparse`, Guild inspects the parser arguments for flags, otherwise it inspects the module for global scalar or string assignments. This interface can be controlled explicitly using the `flags-dest` attribute (see above).

<div id="operation-flags-import-skip"></div>

#### `flags-import-skip`

*List of flags to skip when importing all flags (list of strings)*

Use this attribute when setting `flags-import` to `yes` or `all` when it's more convenient to exclude a list of flags than it is to list flags to import.

<div id="operation-requires"></div>

#### `requires`

*List of operation dependencies (list of [resources](#resources))*

By default run directories are empty, which means that any local files that a script needs will not be available by default. To ensure that a script has access to required resources, the operation must specify the appropriate dependencies using the `requires` attribute.

Refer to [Dependencies](#dependencies) below for details on specifying this value.

<div id="operation-sourcecode"></div>

#### `sourcecode`

*Specification used to copy source code files ([source code spec](#source-code-specs))*

Guild copies source code for each run to provide a record associated with the run. Furthermore, Python based operations are isolated from their upstream project source code and rely on copied source code.

By default, Guild copies text files that are less than 1M up to 100 files. Guild shows warnings for files that exceed these limits.

When the `sourcecode` attribute is defined, Guild does not apply these checks and will not show sauch warnings.

<div id="operation-output-scalars"></div>

#### `output-scalars`

*List of output scalar patterns to apply to run standard output (list of [output scalar specs](#output-scalar-specs) or `no`)*

By default, Guild captures output scalars using the pattern ``^(\key): (\value)``.

Use the `output-scalars` attribute to customize the way Guild captures scalars from standard output.

To disable capturing of output scalars altogether, specify `no`.

<div id="operation-env"></div>

#### `env`

*Additional environment variables available to the operation process (mapping of names to values)*

Flag values are always available in the environment as `FLAG_<NAME>` variables, where `<NAME>` is the upper case flag name. A flag can specify a different environment variable name using the [`env-name` flag attribute](#flag-env-name).

<div id="operation-python-requires"></div>

#### `python-requires`

*Requirement specification of Python needed for the operation (string)*

The requirement must be specified without a package name using only the version portion of a [](ref:pip-reqs).

<div id="operation-python-path"></div>

#### `python-path`

*Path to use for `PYTHONPATH` when running the operation (string)*

<div id="operation-stoppable"></div>

#### `stoppable`

*Indicates whether user-termination of the operation should be treated as a success (boolean)*

By default, Guild designated user-terminated operations as `terminated`. In some cases, you may may want to designate such user-terminated operations as `completed`, in which case, set this attribute to `yes`.

<div id="operation-label"></div>

#### `label`

*Label template for the operation (string)*

By default, Guild creates a label that includes user-provided flag values. Use the `label` attribute to to define an alternative default label template.

Use ``${FLAG_NAME}`` in the label to include specific flag values. For example, to define a label template that includes the flag `dropout_rate`, use ``dropout_rate=${dropout_rate}``.

<div id="operation-compare"></div>

#### `compare`

*List of columns to include for operation runs in [Guild Compare](/tools/compare.md) (list of [column specs](#column-specs))*

<div id="operation-default-max-trials"></div>

#### `default-max-trials`

*Default number of max trials when running batches (integer)*

By default, the max trials used when the user doesn't explicitly specify `--max-trials` is optimizer-specific. All of Guild's built-in optimizers have a default max trials of `20`.

<div id="operation-objective"></div>

#### `objective`

*Objective used by sequential optimizers (string or mapping)*

If `objective` is a string, optimizers attempt to minimize the specified scalar value for runs.

As an alternative, to minimize a scalar, use the mapping `minimize: SCALAR`.

Use a mapping of `maximize: SCALAR` to maximize a scalar value when optimizing.

<div id="operation-optimizers"></div>

#### `optimizers`

*Mapping of named optimizers associated with the operation*

The mapping consists of default optimizer flags used when the optimizer is specified for a run.

An optimizer defined in this section can be specified for a run using its name with the `--optimizer` option.

By default, the optimizer operation is the same as the mapping key. To use a different operation, use the special attribute `algorithm`.

To designate an optimizer as the *default*, use the special attribute `default` with a value of `yes`. Default optimizers as used when the `--optimize` option is used with [run](cmd:run).

See [Optimizers - Guild File Cheatsheet](/cheatsheets/guildfile.md#optimizers) for examples.

<div id="operation-plugins"></div>

#### `plugins`

*List of plugins to enable for the operation*

Use the value `all` to enable all plugins. To enable all summary-related plugins (`cpu`, `gpu`, `disk`, `memory`, and `perf`) use the value `summary`. See [Plugins](/reference/plugins.md) for more information.

<div id="operation-plugins"></div>

#### `pip-freeze`

*Indicates whether or not 'pip freeze' is called for an operation (boolean)*

When this flag is set, Guild generates a `pip_freeze` run attribute containing the output of the `pip freeze` command.

This flag is set by default for Python based operations. To disable it, set the value to `no`.

## Flags

Flags are defined as mappings under the `flags` operation attribute. The mapping key is the flag *name*.

A mapping value may either a mapping of attributes or a default value. Supported flag attribute are listed below.

<div id="flag-name"></div>

#### `<mapping key>`

*Flag name (required string)*

The flag name is used when specifing a flag value. When specifying a value as an argument to the [run](cmd:run) command, the name is used as `NAME=VALUE`.

<div id="flag-description"></div>

#### `description`

*Flag description (string)*

The flag description is used in project and operation help. If the flag description contains more than one line, the first line is displayed for operation help (e.g. when `guild run <operation> --help-op` is run). The full string is displayed for project help (e.g. when `guild help` is run for a project).

<div id="flag-type"></div>

#### `type`

*Flag value type (choice - see options below)*

Flag type is used to both validate and convert flag values when set as global variables. Note that all command line arguments and environment variables are passed as strings and must be converted by the script. Guild uses the type to validate user-provided input in all cases.

By default, Guild converts user-input to values using YAML rules for decoding.

Flag type may be one of:

- `string`
  Value is converted to string regardless of how it would be decoded as YAML.

- `number`
  Value is converted to an integer when possible, otherwise it is converted to a float.

- `float`
  Value is converted to a float.

- `int`
  Value is converted to an integer.

- `boolean`
  Value is converted to a boolean.

- `path`
  Value is converted to a string and must contain only valid path characters.

- `existing-path`
  Value is converted to a string and checked as an existing path.

<div id="flag-default"></div>

#### `default`

*Default flag value*

By default, flag values are `null` and are not passed to the script. Users override a default value when running an operation using the form `guild run <operation> <flag>=<value>`.

<div id="flag-required"></div>

#### `required`

*Indicates whether or not a flag value is required (boolean)*

By default, flag values are not required.

<div id="flag-arg-name"></div>

#### `arg-name`

*Argument name used when setting the flag value (string)*

If operation `flags-dest` is `args`, this attribute specifies the argument option name, used as ``--NAME VALUE``.

If operation `flags-dest` is `globals`, this attribute specifies the global variable name.

If operation `flags-dest` is `global:PARAM`, this attribute specifies the key used when setting the flag in the `PARAM` global dict. In this case, dots (`.`) in the name denote nested entries in the global dict. For example, the value for a flag with arg name `train.lr` will be set in the dict `PARAM` so that it can be read as `PARAM['train']['lr']`.

<div id="flag-arg-skip"></div>

#### `arg-skip`

*Indicates whether the flag is skipped as an argument (boolean)*

By default, all flags are set according to the operations `args-dest` attribute. If `arg-skip` is set to `yes` for a flag, that flag will not be set.

This value is used to skip flag arguments that are already specified in the `main` or `exec` operation attributes.

<div id="flag-arg-switch"></div>

#### `arg-switch`

*Flag value that, when specified, causes the flag to be set as a boolean switch*

By default, flags are set as values. When `arg-switch` is specified, they are set as boolean switches if and only if the user specifies the `arg-switch` value. A boolean switch is specified as a ``--SWITCH`` command line argument and does not provide a value. A boolean switch is specified as `True` when set as a global variable.

For example, if `arg-switch` is `yes` for a flag named `test`, when the user specifies ``test=yes``, the command line option ``--test`` is provided without a value to the script --- or the global variable `test` is set to `True` --- depending on the operation `flags-dest` setting.

<div id="flag-choices"></div>

#### `choices`

*List of allowed flag values (list of values or mappings)*

Each list item may be either a value, which indicates one of the valid choices, or a mapping of choice attributes.

When specified as a mapping, valid attributes are:

- `value`
   Choice value

   The choice is 'selected' when the flag value equals this value. This value is used as the flag value unless `arg-value` is specified, in which case that value is used.

- `description`
   Description of the choice

   The choice description is used when showing operation help.

- `alias`
   Alternative value for selecting a choice

   If a choice alias is specified, the choice value is used for the flag value. Aliases are used in help text for the operation.

   The choice value may still be used to select the choice.

- `flags`
   Mapping of flag names to values that are applied when the choice is selected

    Use `flags` to define a profile of flag values that is applied when the choice is selected.

    Note that the user may override flag values defined in `flags` by explicitly setting them for a run.

<div id="flag-allow-other"></div>

#### `allow-other`

*Indicates whether the user may enter a non-choice value when `choices` is specified (boolean)*

By default, when `choices` is defined for an operation, Guild prevents the user from specifying values that are not in the list of choices. To allow non-choice values, set this attribute to `yes`.

<div id="flag-env-name"></div>

#### `env-name`

*The environment variable name used for the flag (string)*

By default, Guild provides a flag value as the environment variable `FLAG_UPPER_NAME` where `UPPER_NAME` is the flag name in upper case. All non-alpha-numeric characters are converted to underscores. So a flag named `learning-rate` is made available as the environment variable `FLAG_LEARNING_RATE`.

Use the `env-name` to control the environment variable name used.

<div id="flag-null-label"></div>

#### `null-label`

*Display label used in operation preview when flag value is `null` (string)*

By default, Guild uses the string ``default`` when showing null values in the operation preview. Use this attribute in cases where another string would be clearer. For example, if the behavior of a script is to auto-detect a value when a `dataset` flag is `null`, `null-label` could be set to ``auto detected`` to help convey this to the user.

<div id="flag-min"></div>

#### `min`

*Minimum allowed value (number)*

By default, Guild does not check number ranges.

This value also serves as the default lower bound for values chosen by optimizers.

<div id="flag-max"></div>

#### `max`

*Maximum allowed value (number)*

By default, Guild does not check number ranges.

This value also serves as the default upper bound for values chosen by optimizers.

<div id="flag-distribution"></div>

#### `distribution`

*Distribution used when sampling values for flag (string - see below for options)*

Legal values are:

- `uniform`
  Sample from a uniform distribution.

- `log-uniform`
  Sample from a log uniform distribution.

## Dependencies

An operation may require *resources* to run. Required resources are referred to as *dependencies*.

Dependencies are specified using the `requires` attribute. The value for `requires` is list of dependencies.

Dependencies may be *inline* or *named*. An inline resource is defined as part of the `requires` operation attribute. A named resource is defined as a model resource and is referenced using the resource name.

When defining an inline resource, you may specify any supported resource attributes. In addition, you may include a `name` attribute, which is used when referencing the inline resource. By default, Guild generates a unique name using the resource source URIs.

The following defines a list of both inline and named dependencies:

``` yaml
train:
  required:
    - prepared-data       # named resource
    - file: config.yml    # inline resource
```

See [Resources](#resources) below for resource types and supported attributes.

See [Required Files - Guild File Cheatsheet](/cheatsheets/guildfile.md#required-files) for more examples.

### Source Code Specs

The operation [`sourcecode`](#operation-sourcecode) attribute specifies how source code is copied for a run.

The `sourcecode` attribute value may be a list, a mapping, or a string. If the value is a string, the value is used for `root` as if specified as a mapping.

If `sourcecode` is a mapping, it uses the attributes listed under [Source Code Mapping](#sourcecode-mapping) below.

If `sourcecode` is a list, each list item is a source code select rule. See [Source Code Select Rules](#sourcecode-select-rules) below details.

<div id="sourcecode-mapping"></div>

***Source Sode Mapping***

<div id="sourcecode-root"></div>

#### `root`

*Alternative root from which to copy source code (string)*

By default, Guild copies source relative to the Guild file defining the operation. Use `root` to specify an alternative path.

This value may use `../` to reference source code outside the Guild file directory.

Note that paths that refer to locations outside the Guild file directory may break if the project is copied to another system.

<div id="sourcecode-select"></div>

#### `select`

*List of select rules*

See below for a description of select rules.

<div id="sourcecode-digest"></div>

#### `digest`

*Indicates whether or not Guild generates a digest for copied source code (boolean)*

By default Guild generates digests of copied source code. The digest can be used to determine if source code used by two runs is different.

In some cases, it may be too expensive to compute a digest and the source code version may be available through an explicit version. In such cases, you can disable the digest by setting this attribute to `no`.

<div id="sourcecode-select-rules"></div>

***Source Code Select Rules***

Each select list, whether specified under `select` for a `sourcecode` mapping or as an item in a `sourcecode` list, is an *include* or *exclude* rule. Each rule is either a string or a mapping.

If the rule is a mapping, it must contain a type attribute of either `include` or `exclude`. The type attribute value is a [glob style](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glob_(programming)) patterns or list of patterns.

If the rule is a string, it implies a mapping type of `include` where the string is the rule pattern.

When at least one rule pattern matches a path relative to the Guild file location, Guild applies the rule with the effect of including or excluding the path.

Rules are applied in the order specified. Subsequent rules override previous rules.

In addition to glob patterns, defined using either `include` or `exclude` (see above), you may specify additional mapping attributes, which are listed below.

<div id="sourcecode-select-rule-type"></div>

#### `type`

*The type of path to match (choice - see options below)*

This information is applied to the selection test, along with the rule path pattern.

Type may be one of the following values:

- `text`
  Matches only text files

- `binary`
  Matches only binary files (i.e. non-text)

- `dir`
  Matches only directories

Excluding `dir` types has a performance benefit as Guild will not scan the contents of excluded directories.

See [Source Code - Guild File Cheatsheet](/cheatsheets/guildfile.md#source-code) for examples on how to configure source code for an operation.

## Output Scalar Specs

*Output scalars* are numeric values that are written to standard output or standard error streams and logged during a run. Output scalar values correspond to a *key* and an optional *step*.

Guild supports output scalars as an alternative to explicit logging to event logs. Use output scalars to log results by printing them as script output.

Output is matched using [regular expressions](term:regex). Values are captured using capture groups. The special escape values ``\key``, ``\value``, and ``\step`` can be used to match keys, values, and step values respectively.

By default, Guild logs output written in the format:

``` text
key: value
```

- `key` must not be preceded by any white space
- `value` must be a value that can be decoded as number
- Guild treats the key literal ``step`` as a special value, which is used to set the *step* associated with subsequently logged values

This scheme is designed for simple cases and can be modified using the `output-scalars` operation attribute.

The `output-scalars` attribute may be a mapping of scalar keys to capturing pattern or a list of capturing patterns. If the value of `output-scalars` is a mapping, the mapping keys correspond to scalar keys and each value is a pattern that captures a numeric value as a group.

``` yaml
train:
  output-scalars:
    loss: 'test_loss=(\value)'
    acc: 'test_acc=(\value)'
    step: 'epoch=(\step)'
```

*Sample mapping attribute --- keys are scalar keys and values are capturing regular expression patterns*

If the value of `output-scalars` is a list, each item may be a mapping of keys to capturing patterns, which is treated identically as the mapping described above, or as strings. If an item is a string, it must define two capture groups. By default, the first capture group is the scalar key and the second capture group is the scalar value. Named capture groups may be used to reverse this order, using `key` and `value` group names for the captured key and value respectively.

``` yaml
train:
  output-scalars:
    - step: 'Results for \(step (\step)\):'
    - '  (\key)=(\value)'
```

*Sample list attribute --- items may be mappings of scalar keys to capturing patterns or strings that capture both keys and values*

Patterns must be valid [regular expression](ref:regex).

The special templates ``\key``, ``\value``, and ``\step`` may be used to represent regular expressions for valid keys, numeric values, and step values respectively.

> **TIP**
Use the `--test-output-scalars` option to [run](cmd:run) to test strings from generated output. You can test a file or interatively test strings that you type into the console (use ``-`` as the file name to read from standard intput).

See [Output Scalars - Guild File Cheatsheet](/cheatsheets/guildfile.md#output-scalars) for additional examples of output scalar capture patterns.

## Column Specs

By default Guild shows all flags and root output scalars for an operation run in [Guild Compare](/tools/compare.md). Use the `columns` operation attribute to define an alternative set of columns.

Guild supports a special syntax for specifying columns, which is defined by the following grammar:

```
['first'|'last'|'min'|'max'|'total'|'avg'] SCALAR_KEY ['step'] ['as' DISPLAY_NAME]

'=' FLAG_NAME ['as' DISPLAY_NAME]

'.' RUN_ATTRIBUTE ['as' DISPLAY_NAME]
```

All columns can be named by appending `` as DISPLAY_NAME`` to the expression.

To show *scalars*, specify the scalar key. You may optionally qualify which scalar value to show by preceding the expression with one of the qualifiers listed above. Scalars are logged per *step* and so there may be multiple values, each associated with a step value. Qualifiers indicate how a scalar should be presented as a single value. By default, the last scalar value is used --- the value associated with the largest step value.

To show a run *flag*, precede the flag name with an equals sign ``=``.

To show a run *attribute*, precede the run attribute name with a dot ``.``. For a list of attributes, use ``guild ls -a -p .guild/attrs RUN`` for a run.

For example:

``` text
train:
  compare:
    - max loss as max_loss
    - max loss step as max_loss_step
    - min loss as min_loss
    - min loss step as min_loss_step
```

&nbsp; *Use the `compare` operation attribute to define the columns shown in [Guild Compare](/tools/compare.md)*

> **NOTE**
Column specs are used with any column-spec command option. For example, use the above syntax for `STEPS` in `guild compare --columns SPECS`.

## Steps

Steps are used to implement sequential work flow in Guild. The `steps` attribute specifies a list of operations to run.

Operations that define steps are referred to as *stepped operations* or *workflows*.

The `step` attribute is a list of steps. Each step may be a string or a mapping. If a step item is a string, it is treated as a `run` command.

Step attributes are listed below.

<div id="step-run"></div>

#### `run`

*In operation to run for the step (string)*

You may include flag values as arguments to the operation. Alternatively, use the `flags` attribute to list flag assignments.

<div id="step-name"></div>

#### `name`

*An alternative name used for the step (string)*

By default, the operation name specified for `run` (or as the step value if it is a string) is used as the name.

Names are used as links within the stepped run.

<div id="step-flags"></div>

#### `flags`

*Flag values used for the step operation (mapping of flag names to values)*

> **IMPORTANT**
`flags` defined for a step is different from `flags` defined for an operation. When defined for a step, `flags` represent the flag *values* used for a run. This attribute is a mapping of name to value.

Use `flags` to specify flag values used for a step run. You may include references to step flag values as needed to pass through user-specified values.

<div id="step-checks"></div>

#### `checks`

*List of checks to perform on the step (list of [step checks](#step-check))*

Use checks to validate a step. Checks are used to implement tests in Guild.

<div id="step-run-options"></div>

#### `isolate-runs`

*Limit visible runs to those generated by the step parent run (boolean)*

By default, only runs generated by the step parent are visible to a step run. Set this value to `false` to consider runs generated outside the step parent when resolving operation dependencies for the step.

#### Other Step Run Options

In addition to the attributes above, a step supports the following run options:

- `batch-tag`
- `fail-on-trial-error`
- `force-flags
- `gpus`
- `label`
- `max-trials`
- `maximize`
- `minimize`
- `needed`
- `no-gpus`
- `opt-flags`
- `optmize`
- `optimizer`
- `random-seed`
- `remote`
- `stop-after`

Refer to help for [`guild run`](/commands/run) for information on each option.

### Step Check

A *step check* is a test that Guild applies to an operation step.

Checks are identified by a type attribute, which may be one of the following:

- `file`
  Tests a file generated by an operation.

  See [File Check Attributes](#step-check-file-attributes) below for additional attributes.

- `output`
  Tests operation output.

   See [Output Check Attributes](#step-check-output-attributes) below for additional attributes.

<div id="step-check-file-attributes"></div>

***File Check Attributes***

<div id="step-check-file"></div>

#### `file`

*File path to check (required string)*

Paths are considered relative to the step run directory.

<div id="step-check-file-compare-to"></div>

#### `compare-to`

*Compares the run file to another file (string)*

If the run file is different from the file specified by `compare-to`, the check fails.

Guild assumes that the `compare-to` file is relative to the step run directory.

<div id="step-check-file-contains"></div>

#### `contains`

*Checks the run file for matching text (string)*

`contains` must be a valid [regular expression](ref:regex).

If the run file output does not contain text that matches this attribute value, the check fails.

<div id="step-check-file-attributes"></div>

***Output Check Attributes***

<div id="step-check-output"></div>

#### `output`

*Pattern to search for in run output (required string)*

If the run did not generate output that matches this value, the check fails.
