<div data-theme-toc="true"> </div>

## Flag Imports

### Import All Flags

Use `flags-import: all` to import all detected flags.

``` yaml
train:
  flags-import: all
```

### Import Some Flags

Specify a list of flag names to limit the import.

``` yaml
train:
  flags-import:
    - learning_rate
    - batch_size
    - dropout
```

### Import All But Some Flags

List flags that you don't want to import using `flags-import-skip`.

``` yaml
train:
  flags-import: all
  flags-import-skip:
    - not_a_flag_1
    - not_a_flag_1
```

## Flags Interface

By default, Guild attempts to detect the flags interface for a Python script as one of either:

- `globals` --- sets flags via Python global variables
- `args` --- sets flags using command line options

> **NOTE**
Guild does not support flags interface detection for non-Python scripts (i.e. scripts run using the `exec` operation attribute). Other languages must read flag values either as command line arguments or from environment variables.

### Use Global Variables for Python Scripts

If your script does not import `argparse`, Guild will automatically use `globals` as the flags interface.

Set `flags-dest` to `globals` to explicitly and bypass Guild's flags interface detection.

``` yaml
train:
  flags-dest: globals
```

### Command Line Arguments for Python Scripts

Set `flags-dest` to `args` to cause flag values to be passed as command line arguments. This bypasses Guild's flags interface detection.

``` yaml
train:
  flags-dest: args
```

### Global Dict for Python Scripts

To set flag values as items of a global Python dict, set `flags-dest` to `global:<var name>` where `<var name>` is the global variable name of the dict.

``` yaml
train:
  flags-dest: global:params
```

### All Flag Args with `exec`

Use `exec` for non-Python scripts. Flags may be specified as command line arguments using `${flag_args}` in an `exec` command.

``` yaml
train:
  exec: echo ${flag_args}
  flags:
    msg: hello
```

In this case, running `guild run train` generates the following preview message and output:

``` output
You are about to run test
  msg: hello
Continue? (Y/n)
--msg hello
```

### Flag Values with `exec`

Include specific flag values in an `exec` command using the format `${<flag name>}`:

``` yaml
train:
  exec: echo ${msg}
  flags:
    msg: hello
```

In this case, running `guild run train` generates the following preview message and output:

``` output
You are about to run test
  msg: hello
Continue? (Y/n)
hello
```

## Flag Definitions

Flags are defined by the `flags` operation attribute. If a flag is imported, a flag definition modifies the imported attributes.

### Simple Flag Definition

When a flag definition consists of a single value, the value is used as the default flag value.

``` yaml
train:
  flags:
    learning-rate: 0.1
    batch-size: 100
```

This is equivalent to:

``` yaml
train:
  flags:
    learning-rate:
      default: 0.1
    batch-size:
      default: 100
```

### Flag Help

The flag `description` attribute is used to provide help for a flag.

``` yaml
train:
  flags:
    learning-rate:
      description: Learning rate used for training
      default: 0.1
    batch-size:
      description: Batch size used for training
      default: 100
```

This help is shown when running `guild run train --help-op` and `guild help`.

### Require a Flag Value

Set `required` to `yes` to prevent `null` flag values.

``` yaml
train:
  flags:
    data:
      description: Location of data file
      required: yes
```

### Flag Choices

Specify a list of values for `choices` to limit user input to those values.

``` yaml
train:
  flags:
    optimizer:
      choices:
       - adam
       - sgd
       - rmsprop
      default: sgd
```

Choice options may be mappings that include `description`, which is used in operation help. When providing `description` you must also provide `value`.

``` yaml
train:
  flags:
    optimizer:
      choices:
       - value: adam
         description: Adam optimizer
       - value: sgd
         description: Stochastic gradient descent optimizer
       - value: rmsprop
         description: RMSProp optimizer
      default: sgd
```

Use `required` with choices to require one of the options.

``` yaml
train:
  flags:
    dropout:
      choices: [0.1, 0.2, 0.3]
      required: yes
```

### Other Values for Choice

Set `allow-other` to `yes` to let the user specify a value other than the choices. Choices are still shown in help for the operation.

``` yaml
train:
  flags:
    dropout: [0.1, 0.2, 0.3]
    allow-other: yes
```

### Flag Types

By default, Guild applies the rules described in [Flag Value Decoding](/flags.md#flag-value-decoding) when decoding user-provided flag values. Define a type when you need to validate user input or explicitly convert values that might be incorrectly decoded.

``` yaml
train:
  flags:
    data:
      type: existing-path
      default: data
    data-digest:
      type: string
      required: yes
    learning-rate:
      type: float
      default: 0.1
```

### Rename Flag Argument

By default Guild uses the flag name for a command line option in the format `--<flag name> <flag value>`. To change the argument name, use `arg-name`.

``` yaml
train:
  flags:
    learning-rate:
      arg-name: lr
```

In this case, the flag argument will be `--lr <value>`.

### Specify Flag Global Variable

Use `arg-name` with `globals` flags interface to set the variable name for a flag.

``` yaml
train:
  flags-dest: globals
  flags:
    learning-rate:
      arg-name: lr
```

In this case, the value for `learning-rate` is written to the script global varable `lr`.

### Specify Flag Global Nesting

Use `arg-name` with `global:<var name>` to specify how the flag value is written to the global dict `<var name>`.

``` yaml
train:
  flags-dest: global:params
  flags:
    learning-rate:
      arg-name: train.lr
```

In this case, the value for `learning-rate` is written to the global variable `params` such that it can be read as `params['train']['lr']`.
