<!-- -*- eval:(visual-line-mode 1) -*- -->

<div data-theme-toc="true"></div>
<div data-guild-docs="true"></div>

## Overview

Up to this point, you run `train.py` directly without providing additional information about the script.

When Guild runs an operation, it must determine the following:

- How the script accesses user-provided values ([flags](term:flag))
- How the script communicates numeric results ([scalars](term:scalar))
  such as training *loss* and *accuracy*

Unless configured otherwise, Guild uses [default rules](/reference/defaults.md) to determine this information.

You can configure this information explicitly using a [Guild file](term:guild-file). A Guild file is a human-readable text file named `guild.yml` located in a project directory.

## Create a Guild File

In the `guild-start` project directory, create a file named `guild.yml` that contains this YAML code:

``` yaml
train:
  description: Sample training script
  main: train
  flags-import: all
  output-scalars: '(\key): (\value)'
```

&nbsp; *Project Guild file `train.yml`*

The project directory should look like this:

<div class="file-tree">
<ul>
<li class="is-folder open">guild-start
 <ul>
 <li class="is-folder">archived-runs</li>
 <li class="is-file">guild.yml</li>
 <li class="is-file">train.py</li>
 </ul>
</li>
</ul>
</div>

The Guild file explicitly defines how Guild runs the `train` operation.

Below is a description of each setting.

- `description`
This value appears when listing the operation and in project help. See [*Get Project Info*](#get-project-info) below.

- `main`
Guild loads the specified Python module when running the operation. By default, Guild uses the operation name. For more information, see [*Python Based Operations*](/operations#python-based-operations).

- `flags-import`
To save time and simplify configuration, Guild can inspect the Python module and import detected flags. Setting `flags-import` to `all` tells Guild to use all of the flags it detects. For more information, see [*Flags*](/flags.md).

- `output-scalars`
Guild refers to numeric results like *loss* and *accuracy* as [scalars](term:scalar). Guild can detect scalars logged by script output (e.g. using `print` in Python). By default, Guild captures scalars written to output in the format `KEY: VALUE`. The `output-scalars` operation attribute explicitly defines the patterns that Guild uses. For more information, see [*Output Scalars*](ref:output-scalars).

Refer to [*Guild File Reference*](/reference/guildfile) for details about the Guild file format and available configuration options.

> <span data-guild-icon="info-circle" data-guild-class="callout note"></span>The values for `flags-import` and `output-scalars` used in the Guild file above are equivalent to the defaults used by Guild. They can be omitted without changing the behavior of the operation. We define them explicitly for illustration purposes.

## Get Project Info

When you have saved `guild.yml` above, from the command prompt, list the project operations:

``` command
guild operations
```

``` output
train  Sample training script
```

Show help for the project:

``` command
guild help
```

``` output
OVERVIEW

    You are viewing help for operations defined in the current directory.

    To run an operation use 'guild run OPERATION' where OPERATION is one
    of options listed below. If an operation is associated with a model,
    include the model name as MODEL:OPERATION.

    To list available operations, run 'guild operations'.

    Set operation flags using 'FLAG=VALUE' arguments to the run command.
    Refer to the operations below for a list of supported flags.

    For more information on running operations, try 'guild run --help'.
    For general information, try 'guild --help'.

BASE OPERATIONS

    train
      Sample training script

      Flags:
        noise  (default is 0.1)
        x      (default is 0.1)

```

Press **q** to exit help.

> <span data-guild-icon="thumbs-up" data-guild-class="callout highlight"></span>Guild files define the user interface to your project. This encourages reproducibility as operations are easy to recall, run, and compare.

## Run the Operation

Run the `train` operation:

``` command
guild run train
```

``` output
You are about to run train
  noise: 0.1
  x: 0.1
Continue? (Y/n)
```

> <span data-guild-icon="info-circle" data-guild-class="callout note"></span>You use `train` rather than `train.py` above. `train` is the *operation* defined in the Guild file. `train.py` refers to the Python script directly. Guild supports both methods: running operations defined in Guild files and running scripts.

Press **Enter** to start the operation.

Guild runs `train`, which is equivalent to the operations you've run
to this point, but is explicitly defined in `guild.yml`.

> <span data-guild-icon="check-circle" data-guild-class="callout tip"></span>While it's convenient to run scripts directly in Guild, we recommend that you use a Guild file to explicitly define operations for your day-to-day workflow. Guild file operations are configured explicitly and discoverable as show above. They support a wide range of features that are not available when running scripts directly. For more information, see [*Guild File Reference*](/reference/guildfile.md).

## Summary

In this section, you create a Guild file to explicitly define a
`train` operation.

> <span data-guild-icon="thumbs-up" data-guild-class="callout highlights"></span>> - Guild files help you and your colleagues effectively use a project.
> - Guild files let you control and customize Guild support without modifying your source code. This ensures that your project code and your tools remain independent.

In the [next section](/start/classifier), you create a real-world classifier and use Guild to track and compare results.
